# Data class- You often create classes whose main purpose is to hold data. - In such classes, some standard functionality and utility functions are often mechanically derivable from the data. - In Kotlin, these are called data classes and are marked with data.- In object-oriented programming (OOP), a class contains both properties and functions. However, classes that serve only as data models focus on properties. In such classes, the compiler can derive some functionality from its member properties. Kotlin facilitates this use case with data classes.- Data classes specialize in holding data. The Kotlin compiler automatically generates the following functionality for them:  - A correct, complete, and readable toString() method  - Value equality-based equals() and hashCode() methods  - Utility copy() and componentN() methods  - It provides all the getter and setter methods for the variable declared in constructor- The primary constructor needs to have at least one parameter.- All primary constructor parameters need to be marked as val or var.- Data classes cannot be abstract, open, sealed or inner.- If there are explicit implementations of equals(), hashCode() or toString() in the data class body or final implementations in a superclass, then these functions are not generated, and the existing implementations are used.- If a supertype has the componentN() functions that are open and return compatible types, the corresponding functions are generated for the data class and override those of the supertype. If the functions of the supertype cannot be overridden due to incompatible signatures or being final, an error is reported.- Providing explicit implementations for the componentN() and copy() functions is not allowed.## Declaring Data Classes- You declare data classes similar to how you declare regular classes, except:- The keyword data must precede the keyword class.- The primary constructor must not be empty, and it should contain only val or var properties.```data class Driver(    val id: String,    val number: Int,    val firstName: String,    val lastName: String,    val nationality: String,    val currentTeamId: String,)```## Constructor in Data classes- Data classes can have two types of constructors: primary and secondary.- The primary constructor on a data class can only declare properties. You can optionally create a secondary constructor, but it must delegate to the primary using the this keyword.```// Primary Constructordata class GrandPrix(  val name: String,  val location: String,  val year: Int,  val numTeams: Int,) {  // Secondary Constructor  constructor(    name: String,    location: String,    year: Int,  ): this(name, location, year, 10)}```## Copying Data Classes```data class TeamDetails(val teamName: String = "") ``````fun updateTeamName(newName: String) {  val teamDetails = _teamDetails.value  _teamDetails.value = teamDetails.copy(teamName = newName)}```## Data Class Limitations- Data classes have a few limitations when compared to regular classes:    - They have little utility other than holding data. They can’t be open, abstract, sealed or inner classes.    - The compiler forbids manually implementing copy() and componentN() methods.    - Any parent interface or class of a data class must not have a copy() method.    - The copy() method returns a shallow copy rather than a deep copy.## Standard data classes﻿- The standard library provides **Pair** and **Triple**. - In most cases, though, named data classes are a better design choice, because they make the code more readable by providing meaningful names for properties.    ## Pair - Kotlin language provides a simple datatype to store two values in a single instance. - This can be done using a data class known as Pair. - It is a simple generic class that can store two values of same or different data types, and there can or can not be a relationship between the two values. - The comparison between two Pair objects is done on the basis of values, i.e. two Pair objects are equal if their values are equal.   ```data class Pair<out A, out B> : Serializable```- Here is the example of Pair```fun main() {    val (x, y) = Pair(1, "Geeks")    println(x)    println(y)}```## Tripple### What is Triple? - Kotlin language provides a simple datatype to store three values in a single instance. This can be done using a data class known as Triple. It is a simple generic class that stores any three values, there is no valuable meaning of the relationship between the three values. The comparison between two Triple objects is done on the basis of values, i.e. two Triples are equal only if all three components are equal. ### Class Definition: ```data class Triple<out A, out B, out C> : Serializable```- There are three parameters:   - A – type of the first value  - B – type of the second value  - C – type of the third value```fun main() {    val (x, y, z) = Triple(1, "Geeks", 2.0)    println(x)    println(y)    println(z)}```    